# www.jettmiller.net

Thanks for looking at the source code for my portfolio site!  I decided to upload the source because I wanted to be able to show my ability to write SASS, XML and PHP, and each of these layers are invisible to the end user, even if they know where to look.  Because I know that potential employers and colleagues alike are liable to go diving into a project's source code to make their judgements and silent critiques, I figured I'd make everyone's life easier and provide the source code up front!

First, a little background behind the project.  This site was not intended to be a full-out portfolio website.  I had began teaching myself how to **really** design and build websites with proper HTML, CSS, and Javascript after flirting with it since middle school (that's 12+ years for anyone keeping track).  I saw an opportunity for a entry-level web design job here in Wichita and applied for it, expecting mainly to get some feedback on what I need to do to land a job in the industry.  When I actually got an interview, I realized the only website I had to show for myself was a terribly outdated single-page website for my band, I set out on a four-day project to build a website from scratch to demonstrate a snapshot of my current skills.  This led me to the decision to start with **no CSS frameworks** and **no CMS.**

Over time, the site evolved into being the hub for all of my best work.  But the website itself is probably the jewel in my crown at the time of this writing.  I was able to flex just about every muscle I currently have in putting this together.  I had to write a fair bit of custom PHP and Javascript (even using PHP *inside* Javascript!), I heavily utilized SASS to make writing and maintaining my CSS much easier, I used a few CodePen snippets I forked that have been waiting for a home, and I wrote my first XML file from scratch and hand-authored the PHP to load it in.  Of course, the site is fully responsive, so it looks great on every device (except for maybe the hypothetical super-wide devices of the future)

All said, building everything from scratch and with no CMS backbone was a great learning process, but I don't think I'll ever do it again!  It's just so easy to get caught up in the minor details of getting everything to look perfect that you never have as much time to worry about what really matters: the content.  I'll be a better designer and developer in the long run for taking the uphill road, but suffice it to say that I fully know the value of CMSes and frameworks now!